---
title:  "The Magic of 'It's My Fault'"
date:   2015-7-15 
categories: connection-and-influence
tags: relationships 
permalink: it-is-my-fault
--- 

My mother, I've noticed, has developed an acumen over the years for pointing out what I do wrong. In. Any. Situation. 

Earlier this morning, we're both leaving Panera Bread. I stretch out the chest of my shirt and point at a small, orange mark on it. "Is this going to stain, Mom?" I ask. "I hate wearing white."

"You hate being a pig, you mean!" she said. 

Yep, that could be it as well. Thanks Mom. 

Then, later this evening my dog, Rocky, pooped inside my room. I mildly spanked him, to make sure he would think twice before doing it again. But my mom yelled at *me*.

"Shouldn't you be mad at the dog?" I said, pointing at the poop.  

"If you don't take him out, what do you expect?" she said. 

I expected someone else to take him out, I admitted. Yet there I was punishing Rocky, a puppy incapable of opening a door, for not walking himself outside. 

I should have smacked myself across the head, instead. In moments like these, we all should. 

Consider, if we are quick to blame helpless beings and inanimate objects for our misfortunes, how readily we must blame other people as well for everything that happens to us. 

The way we respond to our daily lives, admittedly, is a lot like how we react when we food stains our shirts or our pets poop in our room. All upset, we are quick to draw conclusions and throw blame. 

To not trust your friend because they lied. To break up with your partner because they cheated. To get upset because someone did not act as you expected. 

By acting in this manner, however, you leave your actions as a confound. You disregard the role you played in the conclusion. What if, for a change, instead of acting on, Why does this happen to me? you were to ask, What did I do to cause this?

It wouldn't make the other person's actions anymore right, no. But it would allow you to identify where your influence lies. Maybe you didn't show enough affection. Maybe you were too judgmental. Maybe you didn't do your part. Just maybe. 

Can you imagine, for example, the last argument you had where you said, "No, it's my fault." 

In your memory of that experience, do you recall how afterward the other person involved also began to say, "No. It is my fault."  

This, I propose, is the magic that unfolds when you start doing your part. The other people involved start doing their part, as well. 

I'm not saying behaving in this is the answer to all your problems. Just that you and I shouldn't expect someone to behave a certain way, if we don't first align our actions with that expectation. 

For example, I'm still going to avoid wearing white; I'm not cut out for it. But, I will try be more considerate with my dog, since I care about him. 

In fact, for anyone or anything that matters to me, I'm going to exercise my mothers disciplinary voice inside my conscience and make sure my actions are in order before I throw blame. 

I'm sure your parents have an acumen for pointing out what you do wrong, as well. So experiment with me. Exercise their voice inside your conscience and apply it to matters you care about. I hypothesize that, like magic, all our problems will change shape.  



